Functional requirements and use case for ticket booking application


FR1: User Registration & Login

The system will provide the ability to register and log in.

The system will be used to verify users using legitimate credentials.

FR2: View Available Tickets

The system will show the events or shows that are available.

The system will display the date, time, location and the cost of the ticket.

FR3: Seat Selection

The system will provide the ability of the user to choose seats that are available.

The system will avoid duplication of the bookings of the seats.

FR4: Ticket Booking

The system will enable the user to reserve the seats that they have chosen.

The system will determine the price of all the tickets booked.

FR5: Payment

The system will offer the users the option of paying online.

Status of the payment shall be verified by the system.

FR6: Ticket Confirmation

Once payments are made successfully, the system will produce an electronic ticket.

The system will show the user the booking details.

FR7: Ticket Cancellation

The system will allow the users to cancel cancelled tickets.

The system will change the availability of seats after a cancellation.

Use Cases (Simplified)
Use Case 1: Register / Login

Actor: User
Description: the user opens an account or signs in the application.
Output: The user gains entry into the application.

Use Case 2: View Shows / Events

Actor: User
Description: The user can see the list of available tickets.
Output: A table of the events to be conducted is presented.

Use Case 3: Select Seats

Actor: User
Description: The user chooses seats that are pertinent to booking.
Conclusion: The seats are provisionally booked.

Use Case 4: Book Ticket

Actor: User
Description: The user makes a reservation of the selected seats.
Outcome: The booking process is started.

Use Case 5: Make Payment

Actor: User
Description: Online payment is done by the user.
Outcome: The payment is made success or failure.

Use Case 6: View Ticket

Actor: User
Description: The ticket that has been booked is displayed to the user.
Output: The information about the ticket is presented.

Use Case 7: Cancel Ticket

Actor: User
Description: Cancelling of a ticket is done by the user when he or she has already booked the ticket.
Findings: The ticket will be cancelled.


